# README
## Overview
The Carl D. Perkins Report is a proof-of-concept intended to explore the capacity of ArcGIS resources for potential use in statewide reporting of Career and Technical Education outcomes. It was developed in [ArcGIS Online](https://www.esri.com/en-us/arcgis/products/arcgis-online/overview) using the [ArcGIS Operations Dashboard](https://www.esri.com/en-us/arcgis/products/arcgis-dashboards/overview) application, and tied together into a single cohesive application using the [ArcGIS Experience Builder](https://www.esri.com/en-us/arcgis/products/arcgis-experience-builder/overview).
The Carl D. Perkins Report was developed by WestEd and supported by the California Department of Education's Career and Technical Education Division. Each panel has been designed based on stakeholder feedback gathering during the Perkins V state planning process and reflects inputs from local and state CTE faculty and administrators.
The reporting tool addresses three critical areas related to administration and planning of Career and Technical Education programs: **Program Effectiveness**, **Equity and Access**, and **Industry Needs**. Each panel is designed to address one area through prompts at the top of each page. The maps and charts contained in each panel are intended to help users answer those questions and inform decision-making at district and school levels. The proof of concept tool may be found here: \<url\>
## Data Sources
Most of the data used in the prototype reporting tool are available on ArcGIS Online through Living Atlas or the CDE Community Data Hub. These data are available for use by anyone with an ArcGIS account. For more information on how to set up an account, see [https://doc.arcgis.com/en/arcgis-online/get-started/create-account.htm](https://doc.arcgis.com/en/arcgis-online/get-started/create-account.htm)
### Layer Files
Primary feature layers used in the various panels are the following:
* [California School District Areas 2017-18](https://www.arcgis.com/home/item.html?id=19f0f5c8f230407bb7236e468abe2a34): California school district composite layer that includes elementary, secondary and unified school district area boundaries for the 2018-19 academic year supplemented with district-level demographics from the California Department of Education's (CDE) data collections.
* [Predominant Occupation by County, 2018](https://www.arcgis.com/home/item.html?id=115c0fb1438043fa9b7493c89bc6f7c5). This layer contains the most current release of data from the American Community Survey (ACS) about median earnings by occupational group. These are 5-year estimates shown by tract, county, and state boundaries.
* [Industry Predominancy by County, 2016](https://www.arcgis.com/home/item.html?id=673e64cb978d4e79ab47f541a7c52d65). This layer shows the predominant industry by county in 2016. Strength is shown by transparency, and number of people in labor force is shown by size.
* [ACS Earnings by Occupational Variables, 2014-2018](https://www.arcgis.com/home/item.html?id=4d64e5d8a61e40b2aba17a1fe7114f4d). This layer contains the most current release of data from the American Community Survey (ACS) about median earnings by occupational group. These are 5-year estimates shown by tract, county, and state boundaries.
* [Jobs Proximity Index](https://arcgis.com/home/item.html?id=4e2ef54b88084fb5a2554281b2d89a8b)The jobs proximity index quantifies the accessibility of a given residential neighborhood as a function of its distance to all job locations within a given area, with larger employment centers weighted more heavily.
Supplementary view layers based on the California School District Areas feature layer were also created. While the source data remains the same, additional data fields were added to facilitate data displays and visualizations unique to each dashboard panel. Likewise, hosted tables are used in the chart displays shown in the Program Effectiveness panel as well as the District At-A-Glance infographic shown across all three panels.
### Additional Data
Additional datasets include enrollment in CTE programs by school district, academic year, industry sector and pathway, as well as summary demographic data. State living wage data were derived from the [MIT Living Wage Calculator](https://livingwage.mit.edu/states/06). 
The table below shows tables and layer files associated with each Dashboard Panel:
|    **Dashboard Panel**    |   **Layer File(s) **  | **Supplementary Tables** |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------:|:--------------------:|
| Program Effectiveness | Percent CTE Enrollment  | dashTbl1a, District At-A-Glance (at-a-glance)    |
| Equity and Access     | Proportionality Index |  District At-A-Glance (at-a-glance)  |
| Industry Needs        | Predominant Occupation by County, 2018; Industry Predominance by County, 2016; ACS  |  District At-A-Glance (at-a-glance)   |
## Transformations
Data regarding enrollment in CTE programs are aggregated at the district and industry sector levels based on school-level course enrollments. Courses were aligned to industry sectors and pathways using CALPADS definitions for the 2017-18 program year. Courses coded as Work Experience Education or Multiple Sectors were removed to minimize duplication. Nevertheless, because students may opt to enroll in more than one CTE course at a time, counts of students in CTE programs are likely to be duplicative, and should be regarded as counts of enrollments rather than unique counts of students. 
### Proportionality Index
To help identify disparities among populations served in CTE programs, a proportionality index was calculated by dividing the percentage of enrollments in CTE programs by the percentage of overall enrollment for a given population. Additionally, an overall index rank based on percent minority in CTE and within the district. Cutoffs to measure equity gaps recommended by the USC Center for Urban Education are as follows:
* Between .99 and .86 = mild equity gap 
* Between .85 and .71 = moderate equity gap 
* Less than .70 = major equity gap 
### Gower’s Similarity Index
Gower’s coefficient measures similarity / difference between one element and others within a dataset containing mixed attributes. It is particularly useful in that it can accommodate quantitative, binary, and nominal variables. Similarity values for each variable are calculated based on the type of variable then averaged across variables. The result is a point value indicating relative distance (i.e., similarity) from the item of comparison. The closer to zero a point value is, the more similar it is. 
In the case of the similarity index calculated for the Reporting Tool, total enrollment was used as a weighting variable. Other variables included Locality (urban, suburban, etc.), demographic characteristics (race, ethnicity), and special populations (migrant, socioeconomically disadvantaged, EL). Documentation for how calculations were performed are located in the r scripts folder. 
## Limitations
As a proof-of-concept tool, some of the metrics included **may not reflect accurately represent district-level information.** Specifically, performance outcomes on the "District-at-a Glance" section, as well as total funding for CTE programs, reflect data elements that may be incorporated in future iterations and are shown as placeholders. Additionally, the Proportionality and Similarity Indexes were calculated based on estimated student counts derived from enrollment data and likewise may not reflect current realities within districts. The methods of calculating these data are, however, valid and available in this repository. 
## Questions / Comments
Send questions and comments to ghill@wested.org. 
